What is SSH, why do we need it?
SSH stands for 	secure shell, it is used for accessing the shell of a remote linux computer.

How does SSH is secured?
SSH uses cryptographic technics in securing the communication end-to-end. It uses 3 forms of encryption technics 
1. symmetric encryption
2. asymmetric encryption
3. hasing

	
How does SSH works?
The SSH connection would be established between the client and the server in 2 stages	
1. The session will be established between both the parties by computing a shared session key for end-to-end encryption
2. authenticating the client to allow access to the server machine

#1. The session will be established between both the parties by computing an shared session key
The client sends the request to the server initiate the session, upon the server accepts the requests, the below process would begin to compute a shared session key for encryption
1. both parties will agree upon and generates an large prime number which is an shared key
2. both parties agrees upon an encryption algorithm to encrypt the data
3. each party independently generates an prime number which is kept as an private key
4. each party generates independently their own public key with a combination of shared key, private key and algorithm
5. exchange their public keys with each other
6. upon exchanging the public key, compute a session key with either of their public keys with their private key and shared key which will results in the same session key by both the parties.
7. use the computed session key for encrypting the data during the communication

#2. upon generating the shared session key, the server challenges the client to authenticate himself in gaining the access to the server computer
1. The client has to send the username/password onbehalf of the user for whom he wanted to access the remote server by encrypting the data with shared session key.
2. The server vaidates the username/password by decrypting with shared session key and grants the access to the client if the credentials are valid

This process of authenticating the user in granting the access to the remote server is called "passwordAuthentication"
	
There are problems with passwordAuthentication in gaining the access to the remote server
1. exchanging the username/password over the network is an security breach or even though we encrypt the username/password, there is still a chance someone might decrypt it

2. Granting the access to the remote machine to a client based on username/password becomes permanent access and we cannot revoke the access to the machine easily

To overcome the above problem asymmetric key-based authentication technic has been introduced.
	
	
	

































































