How to add an user into the linux operating system?
There are 2 ways we can add a user into the linux operating system
1. useradd
it is an core system linux command that is available in all the distros of the linux using which we can add a user into linux

2. adduser
adduser is an utility provided only as part of linux ubuntu distro only

The Root user only can add another linux system users and all the user management commands are part of /sbin directory. In order to use these commands you need to switch to either root user or you can run those commands using sudo.	
sudo = super user do, execute the commands as root

#1. useradd
sudo useradd username

for eg..
sudo useradd joe
1. creates and group by generating the gid with the username joe
2. creates an user joe by generating the uid and associates the user to the group above
3. doesnt create home directory by default
4. creates the user without password

with the above the user will be created, but he cannot login into the system using the username/password since he dont have the password.
The only way to perform operations as the joe user is by switching to the user in terminal using 
sudo su username	
sudo su joe
even we switch as joe there is of no use since he doesnt have home directory of his own

We need to carry somemore steps manually to make the user work as below:
1. goto /home directory
2. sudo mkdir username (joe)
3. chown joe:joe /home/joe = change the ownership of the directory
4. sudo passwd joe
with the above 4 steps we will have the joe user created completely

#2 The useradd has plenty of switches available using which we can make user creation a little more easy
-m = create default home directory for the user
-d directory = create the home directory for the user under specified location
-p password = encrypted password
-s shell = the default shell to be used when the user launched the terminal

sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash joe
sudo passwd joe
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. adduser
any of the above 2 ways adding a user involves manual operations and seems to be abit complex, to help us in quickly adding the users to the linux system the ubuntu has provided a utility ontop of useradd which is called "addduser"
	
sudo adduser username
itprompts for all the inputs and adds the user along with home directory and password so that we can directly use the user
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. How to get the details of the user we created?
id username
for eg..
id joe
uid=1002(joe) gid=1002(joe) groups=1002(joe)
	
displays uid, username, the primary groupid and groupName along with other groups inwhich joe is there.
if we dont pass username as an input to id command, it shows current logged-in user details


2. how to see a user is in which groups?
groups username
groups sriman
displays all the groups of the user
if we dont supply username by default it displays the current logged-in user groups

3. How to create a user with a different home directory location other than default /home/$USER
sudo useradd -m -d directoryPath -s shell username

4. How to create a new user with an existing group?
by default while creating a new user always linux wants to associate the user to a group, so as we dont specify any group by default, it creates a new group with same name as user and associates the user to the group.
	
if we have an existing group into which we want to create the user then specify the gid of the group into which the user should be created.
	
sudo useradd -m -g 1003 username
now the user will be directly created with an existing group of id=1003 and will not create user group again

sudo useradd -m -g 1003 jessie
in the above command jessie group will not be created

5. how to create a new group in linux
sudo groupadd groupName
sudo groupadd qagroup

6. how to create a new user with a specified user id?
by default uid of the user will be generated by incrementing last generated uid +1, but if we want to create a user with specific uid we can specify as below.
	
sudo useradd -u 1011 -g 1000 -m -s /bin/bash rose
now rose user will be created by assigning the uid as 1011 and gid as 1000
	
7. how to delete an existing user
sudo deluser username = ubuntu
sudo userdel username = core command

in any of the above commands we use the below things will happen
1. the user we specified will be deleted
2. if the user associated group has only one user as the same, automatically the group will be deleted
3. the home directory of the user will not be deleted since the other users of the linux system has access to the files and folders of the user

8. how to delete a group
sudo delgroup groupName
while deleting the group, if it is an primary group of any user, the group will not be allowed to delete

sudo delgroup joe
/usr/sbin/delgroup: `joe' still has `joe' as their primary group!
	
	













	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	








































































	























