There are 7 layers are there in osi model layer protocol
1. Application layer
defines message structure and semantics using which 2 different applications are going to communicate
	There are internet standard has defined application protocols for most popularly used applications on the internet
	1. HTTP
	2. SMTP/POP3/IMAP
	3. FTP
	4. RDP
	5. SSH

2. Presentation layer
it presents the data in an transmittable format to the lower-level layers of the OSI
1. Data Conversion
2. Compression/UnCompression
3. Encryption/Decryption

3. Session layer
is responsible for exchange of data between end-end applications
1. authentication and authorization
2. session management
		- keeping track of the packets to be transferred
		- reordering the packets to re-construct the message at the receiver side
		
4. Transport layer
1. segmentation
	- break the data into packets add receiver portno and seqno to it which are called "data segments"
2. flow control
	- instructs the sender to slow down when the reciever is running on low-speed network
3. error control
	- add checksum bits to the packets to detect the corrupted data at the receiver
	
5. Network layer
is responsible for transferring the data between the computers which are located across the network
1. logical addressing
	- to the data segment append source/destination computer ip addresses which is called "ip packet" or "data packet"
2. routing
	- identifying the right network to which the packet has to be routed
3. path determination
	- computing the shortest-path in which the data packet can be sent from source to destination

6. Datalink layer
transferring the data between the computers within the network
1. physical address
	- adds the source/destination mac addrress to the ip packet it received from network layer with additional random bits appended to the head/tail of the packet which is called "data frames"
2. media access control
	- convert the data into a signal format that can be transmittable over the network channel
3. error control
	There are 2 types of error control mechanisms it performs
	1. collision detection = to avoid any 2 computers data packets to collide each other
	2. fault detection = due to hardware faiures the packets might recieved in corrupted state, so to detect these packets the head/tail bits added are used
7. Physical layer
responsible for transferring the data over the physical channel of communication
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Network topologies
Topologies means the way the computers are inter-connected with each other 

There are 2 types of topologies are there
1. Logical Topology = refers to the way the messages are moved between the computers within the network

2. Physical Topology = Indicates how the computers are physically arranged and interconnected with each other
There are 5 topologies in which computers can be inter-connected with each other
1. Bus topology
2. Ring topology
3. Star topology
4. Mesh topology
5. Hybrid topology

























	

































