1. Business Organization
The business organization provides business services to their customers, depends on the type of the business the services they are going to offer will differ

For eg..
Banking organization provides business services like
1. opening account
2. deposite
3. withdrawl
4. demand draft
5. checkbook facility
6. fixed deposities
etc

Insurance organization provides business services like
1. issuing policies to the members
2. renewal
3. claim settlements
4. cashless facility
5. providing health tips
6. pre-approvals

How does an business organization offers business services to their customers?
An organization can provide business services to their customers in direct-desk or in-person services and can keep track of the information manually. 
For eg.. A customer who is looking for buying an insurance policy can walk into an insurance provider office and can enquire about policies and enroll, but providing the business services in-person and manually managing them has lot of problems.
  1. Too much time taking
  2. Manually offering the business services can perform human errors (Less accurate)
  3. Cannot avoid Fraud 
  4. More man power is required in offering services to the customers

Instead of providing business services to the customers in-person / manually we can use Software applications in offering the business services at the doorstep of the customer. There are plenty of advantages in offering business services to the customers through an software application.
  1. faster access to the business services
  2. customers can avail the services right at their finger tips
  3. completely transparant and avoid fraud
  4. high accurracy
  5. more secured
  6. less man power is required

Why do we need to use Software applications?
Software Application are used for deliverying/offering business services of an enterprise to the customers at an ease.
  
What is an Software Application?
Software Instructions = Lines of code we write and passed to the computer, so that it can understand and execute to provide the output is called "Software Instructions"
  
Bunch of Software Instructions are written together to execute in producing an outcome is called an Software Application.
  
  
How do we write instructions to the computer?
Computer cannot understand anything we passed to it, we need standard languages to write code and pass it to the computer. To help us in writing instructions in computer understandable format programming languages are introduced.
Like how we have human communication languages like
Hindi
English
Telugu
Tamil

There are lot of programming languages are there using one/any of them we can write instructions and pass to the computer to execute.

Programmers/Developers = are the people who learn programming languages and write lines software instructions using those languages in developing an software application.
  
Business Owner = The person who owns the business and knows the complete information about how to run the business and offer services to their customers

Now the business owner will write requirements document and passes to developer/programmer asking him to develop software application using a programming language.

developer reads the requirements and write instructions in a programming language in building the software application and delivers to business owner.
  










































  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  















