What is an Software Application?
Bunch of lines of code written by the developer using an programming language to fulfil the business needs or to offer business services to the external world

Who are the people involved in developing and deliverying a software application?
There are 3 roles of people involved in developing and delivering a Software application
1. developer
A software application development process begins with developer. The developer will takes the requirements from business owner/product owner, based on which he is going to choose an programming language of the choice. Will write instructions or lines of code in developing an Software Application

2. quality assurance engineer
The developer developed Software Application cannot be release to the external world / enduser. The program/application developed may contain errors/bugs.
  
How many types of errors are there
1. Programmatical errors
2. Logical / Functional errors
The quality assurance engineer has to verify the application and should report the bugs to the developer asking him to fix.

The quality assurance engineer has to execute the software application by passing inputs and verify the application/program is provider correct/expected output or not, if it is not producing the expected output he/she has to report a bug to the developer asking him to fix the error/bug

3. Operational Engineer
takes the responsibility of release/making or hosting the application to the external world or production.
He has to take care of creating necessary infrastructure and setup required softwares/tools on the computer and should run the application to make it accessible to the external world/end-users.

How does these teams are going to collaborate and share the source code of the application?
The people will share or distribute the source code through the help of Source Code Management Repositories. It is a central server location where the source code of the project/software application is placed and distributed

Developers will push the code written in the local system into the SCM Repository
QA/Operational Engineers can pull the code from SCM Repository to use it.
  
How many stages in which an software application is developed and delivered?
(or)
What are the stages in which an application is developed and delivered?
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  