What is a software application?
bunch of lines of code or instructions written by the developing using a programming language to fulfill the business requirment in providing services to the endusers is called "software application".
	
who are the roles of the people involved in developing and delivering a software application?
3 roles of people are there
1. developer
2. quality assurance engineer
3. operational engineer

what are the stages in which an software application is developed and delivered?
4 stages in which an software application is developed and delivered.
	1. development environment
	2. quality assurance engineering environment
	3. uat/stage/pre-prod environment
	4. production environment
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What is DevOps? Why do we need to use DevOps process for developing and delivering an software application?
DevOps is a change in culture/process and adoption of new tools/technologies in developing and delivering an software application.
	
goals: | purpose: (of adopting devops)
So that we can achieve fast paced application development and fast paced application delivery

Why do we need to develop and delivery software applications quickly?
There are certain advantages in developing and delivering the applications quickly to the world	
#1 always we are ahead of competitors in the market.
	
nokia / siemens / motorola = top leading mobile players in the market time, then why did they fallen down, because they couldnt able to catchup the other players/competitors within the market. 
the other players like samsung or htc has brought revolutionary changes through their innovations and relased smart/touch based mobile products in the market, even though the nokia/siemens/motorola understood the change the market is looking for, their existing process/development methodology has not supported to scale to the latest happenings in the market.
due to which even though later point of time they comeup with smart/touch mobiles they already lost the market share and couldnt able to withstand with the competitors.
	
#2 for high customer satisfaction and better ROI (Return of Investment)
if we dont quickly develop and delivery the software application to the users, they will dis-satisfied and move away from the us looking for competitors who can build and deliver new features quickly.
	
#3 if we can quickly develop and deliver the software applications, then the cost of building and delivering the software applications comes down greatly, so that everyone can adopt and use software in the world.
	
adoption of software systems improves the quality standards of living for the human.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	