1. How to know linux shell user in which the command are executed?
whoami

2. How to know the logged-in user of the linux operating system?
logname

3. How to know the users currently logged-in into linux?
who

4. How to know the operating system name?
uname
uname -a 
lsb_release -a

5. how to know the machine name?
hostname
hostname -i = loop back ip address
hostname -I = shows all the network interface cards ip address
	
6. How to change the name of the machine?
Linux stores the name of the machine in /etc/hostname we can change and reboot the machine to get effected
sudo vi /etc/hostname

7. How to know all the network adapters attached to the computers with their details?
ifconfig

ifconfig is not available by default we need to install net-tools package
sudo apt update -y
sudo apt install -y net-tools

8. How to check the reachability of another server over the network?
ping ipaddress

9. How to list all the hardwares of our computer in linux?
lshw

10. How to shutdown or restart an linux operating system?
poweroff = shutdown
reboot/reboot -f = restart the operating system

11. How to access the cpu information of the machine?
Linux stores the information about the cpu in /proc/cpuinfo which we can cat

sudo cat /proc/cpuinfo

12. what are the run-levels or init levels are there in linux operating system?
init levels or run levels indicates how we wanted linux operating system to be booted, there are total 7 run levels are there from 0 - 6. to boot the linux machine in a specific run-level or init level we need to use init command followed by run level
sudo init runLevel

1. sudo init 0 = shutdown/poweroff
2. sudo init 1 = single user mode with no networking, no multi-tasking and only root access (its same as safe-mode in windows)
3. sudo init 2 = no networking, but allows multi-tasking
4. sudo init 3 = supports networking, multi-tasking, but no gui
5. sudo init 4 = same as init 3 level but reserved for research purpose
6. sudo init 5 = supports networking, multi-tasking, with gui and sound
7. sudo init 6 = reboot
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process Management
-------------------
What is a program?
Program is nothing but a File in which we store instructions that can be passed as an input to the operating system asking to execute.
	
	











































	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

















































	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	













