What kind of change in culture and what are the tools/technologies to be adopted by the people in the team during the stage of development to delivery as part of DevOps process

#1 development phase
lets explore the change in culture and adoption tools during development phase of the project
	1. understand the requirements provided by the product/business owner and analyze them to build the software application
	2. choose the programming language that best fit for building the application based on its nature
	3. setup development environment required for developing the project/software application
		- install language software
		- install and configure development related tools
		- install database server software and application server softwares
		etc
	The whole process of installing and configuring the development environment takes lot of time around 15-20 days on an average, if there is a team of 5 members working on the application it takes nearly about 100 person days in just setting up development environment.
	by the above we can understand it delays the software development and delivery process and even increases the cost of manufacturing the software

	That is where DevOps process encourages us to adopt virtualization technology.
	What is Virtualization?
	Virtualization is a technology by using it we can create multiple independent isolated environments	on the physical computer system, which help us in effectively utilizing the hardware resources of the computer.
	There are lot of virtualization softwares are available to create multiple virtual machine environments like
	1. oracle virtualbox
	2. hyperv 
	3. vmware (desktop|workstation|fusion)
	4. parallelx
	The devops engineer using virtualization technology has to setup an virtual machine env with required softwares and tools, the export the virtual machine environment as a diskimage file
	
	To each developer inorder to setup the development env, the devops engineer has to simply import the diskimage to recreate the virtual machine env on their individual machines.
		
	it takes a matter of 5/10 minutes per each developer to bring up the development env which saves huge amount of time and cost of developing and delivering an application.	

	In order to setup the virtual machine by the devops engineer manually it takes lot of time, instead the devops engineer will takes the help of vagrant 
	what is vagrant?
	vagrant is an virtualization workflow automation tool, that let the devops engineer declare/define machine configuration, using which vagrant will quickly setup the virtual machine environment. So we can speed up the process of creating virtual machines using vagrant.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	4. choose the process model in developing and delivering the software application
		There are lot of software development process models are there 
		1. waterfall model
		2. prototype model
		3. incremental/iterative model
		4. spiral
		5. agile methodology, scrum model


		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		












	
