What is Scrum Methodology?
Scrum is a agile methodology based process model that works on an priciple called "fast-fail".
	
There are 3 roles of people are there
1. product owner
He is business representative of the system we are building, he provides the requirements to the team and set the goal/vision in buiding the system.
product owner will write product backlogs, so that the team has to work upon in building the application.

2. scrum member
3. scrum master


1. What is a Sprint?
Sprint is an shortest duration of time where the team will work on the backlogs and produce an shippable product increment. The Sprint can be of a minimum =1 week and a maximum = 4 weeks. 
The Sprint duration should be fixed at the initial commencement of the project and should followed till we complete the project/system

2. Sprint Planning meeting:
It starts at the begining of each sprint. The product owner, scrum master and the scrum team are participants.
agenda:
	1. product owner will prioritize the product backlog (which requires immediate attention)
	2. encourages the scrum team to pick product logs based on the priority
	3. the product owner will provides inputs on each backlog and ensures the whole team understands what they have to work on for those backlogs
	4. the team has to provide estimates
	5. now break the backlog into user stories (breakdown of the product backlogs)
	6. estimate each user story, based on that assign the user stories to the sprint and team should commit for delivery
	
3. Daily-Standup call / Scrum Call
To keep track of the progress of the Sprint, the scrum master will conduct daily Standup call.
Participants:-
	The scrum team and the scrum master
entire team presence is mandatory, no one should miss the standup call
usually will be there for 15 minutes (not more than that)
every one in the meeting should answer 3 questions
	3.1 what has been done
	3.2 what is planned 
	3.3 do you have any challenges or blockers
	
4. Sprint Review Meeting
End of the sprint the Sprint Review meeting will be conducted. The whole world is invited to the meeting.
Scrum master will organize the meeting.
The Individual members of the scrum team should demo the stories they worked on
The product owner will review the work items which are accomplished and will say accepted or rejected.

5. Sprint Retrospection Meeting
Conducted by Scrum Master
only Scrum Member and Scrum Master are the participants, its a closed door meeting.
Everyone will be discussing about what went wrong, how can do it better.
	
	
		





































	




















