What is the change in culture/process and which tools need to be adopted during qa phase of the application in order to implement devops practices in the project?

What is the role / job of qa?	
qa engineer has to test and verify the application is working as per the business requirement or not.
How does qa has to verify the application?
he/she has to run the application by passing the data as an input and verify the application has produced the right output or not based on which he/she can mark the testcases as failed / passed and report a bug on the developer.
	
#1.	
In order to verify the application is working or not by running, the qa requires qa environment. 
The ops engineer is responsible for setting up the qa environment, the developer has to pass the information about which software packages are required and what tools/configurations are needed to run the application to ops engineer.

based on the inputs from developers, now the ops engineers has to setup the qa environment which should be production like environment.

in-production:
we run the application in 3 tiers/layers on 3 machines
we run app server on 1 machine, database server on 2nd machine and client with browser on 3rd machine.
	
in development: (earlier to devops)
the developer has only 1 computer, with one machine creating an production like environment is not possible. So we use to setup app server, database server and webbrower on same machine and develop the application. 
Since the development env is not matching with production like env we need 2 stages of testing
	1. qa environment = which is same as development env to identify functional bugs
	2. uat environment = which is same as production like env, to verify the application will work on production or not.
	
because the development environment is not same as production like env, the qa has to certify the application on 2 environments qa/uat due to which we have more dis-advantages:
	1. the time required for setting up 2 environments is high
	2. the qa has to repeatedly execute the sames test that are conducted on qa env again on uat which increases the twice the time and cost of testing
	3. developer has to fix the code in 2 phases, one per functional level and another for environment level bugs which may require 2 times fixes 
	
from the above we can understand the overall cost and time required for developing and delivering the application is growing high

with adoption of devops:
in-development env:
we are able to create 3 different machines with browser, app server and db server through virtualization which resembles production like environment on one single machine. because of this we can eliminate 2 levels of testing for qa environment and 2nd uat env
The application developed can be straight way tested on one single environment and can be released into production. which will promotes fast-paced development and fast-paced delivery and the cost of building application reduces drastically
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
From the above we can understand the qa environment should be same as production environment.
	
In production environment we run the application on cluster/group of computers. each computer is a server-grade machine equiped with high-speed public network connection making the application accessible to the world.
	
In the qa environment also we need server-grade group of computers connected to public network on which we need to install required softwares and tools to run/execute the application, so that qa can test the application

How to setup qa environment quickly like production like environment?
The ops engineers has to do the following.
1. procure high-end server grade computers
2. establish high-speed network connection inter-connecting the computers
3. install and configure software packages and tools
4. pull the executable file from artifactory server and run on the qa environment we setup

The investment cost and time required for procuring server-grade computers for both qa/production is very very high. In addition setting up the network inter-connecting the computers is high difficult and takes lot of time. So how to overcome this problem

To overcome the above problem adopt cloud platforms like
 1. aws
 2. google cloud (gcp)
 3. azure
 4. oci (oracle cloud infrastructure)
 
now devops engineer has to provision the infrastructure/machine by talking to the any of the cloud providers in getting infrastructure/network as well.
to automate the creation of infrastructure with cloud providers the devops engineer has to use terraform (iac) tool.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	


















	

	






























	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	