What is Linux operating system?
Linux is an general purpose computer operating system released in 1991 by Linus Torvalds. Linux has been build on a philosophy where software should be distributed freely and source code should be made accessible/modifiable freely, that is where linux is distributed under GNU License


The major important component of Linux operating system is "Kernal", kernal interacts with the hardware components of the computer enabling software application run/communicate with the underlying hardware

past/history:-
How to use linux operating system?
The users has to install the kernal/linux to use it. 	but installing the linux operating system is a tedious job, the general user has to run bunch of commands to have kernal installed on the computer system. more over the kernal/linux works on CGI (Character Graphic interface) interface, there is no GUI (Graphical User Interface)	

Based on the above general public user find it very difficult to use linux operating system. even though the innovation is powerful, but it fails from usabibility point of view.
	
There are group of opensource contributors who wants to promote opensource software distribution, they came together and formed group called "GNU project" and started contributing tools/utility softwares that makes the linux operating system general public friendly to use.
	
For eg..
	1. music players
	2. graphical user interface
	3. video players
	4. text editors
	5. office tools
	6. browsers
	etc
	
Now people can install linux kernal operating system ontop of which they can add these additional software packages to enable GUI and other tools required to use linux sophisticatedly


Even though the GNU project contributed at a great scale in promoting linux as opensource general purpose operating system, still people find it tough to use/adopt linux operating system

because the linux has not distributed by packging all the tools/utilities at one go, so people has to install kernal software and on top of it they need to download individual tools/utilities and should install by themself which is very difficult and time consuming task, so majority of the people has not adopted linux

To help in solving the above problem in using linux operating system the linux distros came into picture

Different groups and organizations came forward and build linux operating system with their own choice of software tools/utilities and configurations and packaged and distributed linux operating system with sophisticated operating installers, so people can download the linux distributions provided by these companies in using the linux quickly.
	
There are 4 major linux distributions are available in the market (linux maintainers) 
	1. Arch
	2. Debian
	3. Redhat
	4. Slackware
	
Out of the above there are 2 distributions very popular in the market which are
1. Debain
	1. linux mint
	2. ubuntu
	3. elementary os
	4. kali linux
	
2. Redhat
	1. centos
	2. fedora
	3. red hat enterprise linux (commercial)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Even though there are many distributions of linux operating system the kernal component is more or less same across all the distros, each vendor/distribution has comeup with packaging their own set of tools/utilities and package management softwares and distributed linx operating system to make it easy to use.	
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Features of Linux operating system:
1. Portable = Linux operating system can work on different types of hardwares and kernal supports installations of any kind of hardware platform
2. Open Source = source code is freely available and it is community based development project
3. Multi-User / Multi-programming operating system
it can be used by multiple users at a time and can share the system resources like cpu, ram etc and can run multiple programs also at the same time
4. Hierarchial File System = todo
5. Shell = shell is an interpreter program that helps the people in talking to the linux kernal easily
6. Security = highly secured operating system on this earth




	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	































	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	